 **DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS:

*Data Structures:-
  Data Structure can be defined as the group of data elements which provides an efficient way of storing 
  and organising data in the computer so that it can be used efficiently.

* Data Type:- 
    A data type in a programming language is a set of data with predefined values.
    Examples of data types are: integer, floating point, unit number, character,string, etc.
    A data type reduces the coding effort.
    
   There are two types of data types:
     i- System Defined Datatype: Data types that are defined by system are called primitive data types. 
     The primitive data types provided by many programming languages are: int, float, char, double, bool, etc.
     For the same primitive data type, different languages may use different sizes.
 
    ii-User Defined Datatype: As the name suggest, user can define their own datatypes in the system.
       Eg= Sturctures in C/C++  and classes in Java.
       This gives more flexibility and comfort in dealing with computer memory.

* Data Structures:-
  Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing data in a computer so that it can be used 
  efficiently. It is a special format for organizing and storing data. General data structure types include 
  arrays, files, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs etc.
  
  There are two types of Data Structures: 
  i- Linear data structures: Elements are accessed in a sequential order but it is not compulsory to 
   store all elements sequentially. Examples: Linked Lists, Stacks and Queues.
 ii- Non – linear data structures: Elements of this data structure are stored/accessed in a
   non-linear order. Examples: Trees and graphs.   

* Abstract Data Types (ADTs):
  ADTs are the ways of classifying data structures by providing a minimal expected interface and some
  sets of methods. In short, the combination of Data Structures with their operation is called ADTs.
  An ADT consits of two parts:  i- Declaration of data
                                                  ii- Declaration of operations.

* Algorithm:
  An algorithm is the step-by-step unambiguous instructions to solve a given problem. Algorithm analysis
  helps us to determine which algorithm is most efficient in terms of time and space consumed.
   -->RunTime Analysis: It is the process of determining how processing time increases as the size 
                                        of the problem (input size) increases.

* Rate of Growth:
  The rate at which the running time increases as a function of input is called rate of growth.
  For a given function ignore the low order terms that are relatively insignificant (for large value of n)
   ie. (n^4 + 5n^2 + 500) is appx equal to n^4.


 